---
title: "Overview"
permalink: /
---

### Overview
Raman spectroscopy has been shown to be a non-destructive, label-free method for determining molecular composition.  A Raman spectra can be taken of each pixel in a microscopic image, representing a high-dimensional spatial tensor that may be useful in extracting meaningful biological signal.  In this project, I will explore the use of Spatial Raman spectra in segmenting images of nuclei, distinguishing individual cells from their backgrounds. I compare several pre-processing methods and standard classifiers in distinguishing foreground from background as well as map foreground probability predictions to a 2D image, generating a segmentation map. Additionally, I will create and test a convolutional neural network based on Raman tensor patches for image segmentation.


### Motivation
Image  segmentation  is  a  common  problem  in  ComputerVision  with  widespread  applications.  In  the  field  of  biology,segmentation  has  already  been  used  to  segment  images  ofentire  cells  as  well  as  cellular  sub-components  (e.g.  nuclei).[1], [2],  The quality of a segmentation algorithm, however, ishighly  dependant  on  the  quality  of  the  images  in  the  dataset[site],  preventing  most  neural-network  based  segmentationmethods from identifying and segmenting objects better thanthe  human  eye.  In  other  words,  if  a  human  cannot  detect  anobject  in  an  image,  it’s  unlikely  that  any  object-detection  orsegmentation  algorithm  will  be  able  to  either.  Images  that contain a large amount of noise may mask objects, preventing the  object  from  being  detected  or  segmented.  In  the  case  of segmenting  images  of  nuclei,  there  may  be  a  high  amountof  auto-fluorescence  from  the  microscope  used  to  gather  thei mage,  creating  noise  that  can  mask  cells,  preventing  them from being detected. For  this  project,  I  will  investigate  the  potential  use  of spatial  Raman  spectroscopy  in  segmenting  images  of  nuclei. 


### Background on Raman spectroscopy
Raman  spectroscopy  is  a  technique  that  has  previously  beenused  in  identifying  chemical  compounds  and  is  now  being explored in molecular biology as a way of classifying cells by their  cell-type  or  cell-state.  [5]  [6].  Because  Raman  spectra taken  at  a  single-cell  level  have  been  useful  for  identifying cell-type,   it’s   natural   to   assume   they   may   also   be   used to  segment  an  image,  differentiating  the  foreground  from the  background.  It’s  important  to  note  that  spatial  Ramanspectroscopy   contains   entirely   different   information   than does  a  spatial  image.  While  an  image  may  be  considered  an order  three  tensor  containing  three  channels  (RGB),  spatialRaman  spectroscopy  is  an  order  three  tensor  containing,  in this  experiment,  1,340  features  for  each  pixel.  These  feature represent  discrete  levels  of  energy  shifts  of  photons  that undergo   inelastic   collisions,   or   Raman   scattering.   Being able  to  segment  cells  with  spatial  Raman  spectra  would  bemonumental to the field of computer vision. 


### Aims
I will show results for the following aims:1)  Comparing several data pre-processing methods in clas-sifying  raman  spectra  (pixels)  as  either  belonging  tonuclei or background2)  Comparing  the  segmentation  performance  of  a  neuralnetwork  with  a  linear  method  (logistic  regression)  andan ensemble method (random forests)3)  Implementing  a  neural  network  that  considers  a  ramanspectra  and  its  closest  neighbors  in  classifying  fore-ground from background4)  Comparing  the  performance  of  these  methods  with  astate-of-the-art image-segmentation methodII.
